[RF-DOCS] Solid Queue updates in Active Job Basics [ci-skip] (#12)
Ridhwana/rails: guides/source/active_job_basics.md

After reading this guide, you will know:

* How to create jobs.
* How to enqueue jobs.
* How to create and enqueue jobs.
* How to configure and use Solid Queue.
* How to run jobs in the background.
* How to send emails from your application asynchronously.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What is Active Job?
-------------------

Active Job is a framework for declaring jobs and making them run on a variety
of queuing backends. These jobs can be everything from regularly scheduled
clean-ups, to billing charges, to mailings. Anything that can be chopped up
into small units of work and run in parallel.

The Purpose of Active Job
-----------------------------

The main point is to ensure that all Rails apps will have a job infrastructure
in place. We can then have framework features and other gems build on top of that,
without having to worry about API differences between various job runners such as
Delayed Job and Resque. Picking your queuing backend becomes more of an operational
concern, then. And you'll be able to switch between them without having to rewrite
your jobs.

> NOTE: Rails by default comes with an asynchronous queuing implementation that

Author: Moved this into the Development section

You can enqueue multiple jobs at once using [`perform_all_later`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveJob.html#method-c-perform_all_later). For more details see [Bulk Enqueuing](#bulk-enqueuing).

> Default Adapter: Solid Queue

Author: This is a new section for Solid Queue.

We use the term "adapter" and "backend" interchangeably in the documentation. I'm open to standardizing if we have a preference.

Reviewer: I'm inclined to go with "backend" over "adapter". The adapters are interfaces to the different queuing libraries. They have identical API's, so whichever adapter you use, it should behave the same. 
This is how the [API documentation](https://edgeapi.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveJob/QueueAdapters.html) formulates it:
> Active Job has adapters for the following queuing backends.

Author: Thnaks! Changed in some of the new content where it made sense.

outstanding jobs are lost with the default async backend. This can be fine for
smaller apps or non-critical jobs in development.

However, if you want to use Solid Queue instead, you
can configure it in the same way as in the production environment:

```ruby
# config/environments/development.rb
config.active_job.queue_adapter = :solid_queue
config.solid_queue.connects_to = { database: { writing: :queue } }
```

with the corresponding database configuration:

```yaml
# config/database.yml
development
  primary:
    <<: *default
    database: storage/development.sqlite3
  queue:
    <<: *default
    database: storage/development_queue.sqlite3
    migrations_paths: db/queue_migrate
```

Thereafter, you can run the migrations for the `queue` database to ensure all the tables in queue database are created:

```bash
$ bin/rails db:migrate:queue
```

TIP: You can find the default generated schema for the `queue` database in
`db/queue_schema.rb`. They will contain tables like
`solid_queue_ready_executions`, `solid_queue_scheduled_executions`, and more.

To start the queue and start processing jobs you can run:

```bash
bin/jobs start
```

> 

Author: A significant amount of information that I have in this guide hereafter is specified in the [solid_queue gem README](https://github.com/rails/solid_queue?tab=readme-ov-file#recurring-tasks). In the Rails guides, I try to cover the basics and what I think is relevant, but then at the end of each section I refer back to the gem documentation for more information. I hope this pattern is fine, let me know if there is a different preference?

Reviewer: I think this is a good approach. We don't want to update the guide everytime Solid Queue makes internal changes.

You can enqueue multiple jobs at once using [`perform_all_later`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveJob.html#method-c-perform_all_later). For more details see [Bulk Enqueuing](#bulk-enqueuing).

Default Adapter: Solid Queue
------------------------------

> Solid Queue, which is enabled by default from Rails version 8.0 and onward is a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Solid Queue, which is enabled by default from Rails version 8.0 and onward, is a
```

database-backed queuing system for Active Job, allowing you to queue large
amounts of data without requiring additional dependencies such as Redis.

Besides regular job enqueuing and processing, Solid Queue supports delayed jobs, concurrency controls, numeric priorities per job, priorities by queue order, and more.

### Set Up

#### Development

In development, Rails provides an asynchronous in-process queuing system, which keeps the
jobs in RAM. If the process crashes or the machine is reset, then all
outstanding jobs are lost with the default async backend. This can be fine for
smaller apps or non-critical jobs in development.

> However, if you want to use Solid Queue instead, you

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, if you use Solid Queue instead, you
```

```

### Configuration

The configuration options for Solid Queue are defined  in `config/queue.yml`. Here is an example of the default configuration:

```yaml
default: &default
  dispatchers:
    - polling_interval: 1
      batch_size: 500
  workers:
    - queues: "*"
      threads: 3
      processes: <%= ENV.fetch("JOB_CONCURRENCY", 1) %>
      polling_interval: 0.1
```

In order to understand the configuration options for Solid Queue, you must understand the different types of roles:

- **Dispatchers**: They select jobs scheduled to run for the future. When it's time for these jobs to run, dispatchers move them from the `solid_queue_scheduled_executions` table to the `solid_queue_ready_executions` table so workers can pick them up. They also manage concurrency-related maintenance.
- **Workers**: They pick up jobs that are ready to run. These jobs are taken from the `solid_queue_ready_executions` table.
- **Scheduler**: This takes care of recurring tasks, adding jobs to the queue when they're due.
- **Supervisor**: It oversees the whole system, managing workers and dispatchers. It starts and stops them as needed, monitors their health, and ensures everything runs smoothly.

> Everything is optional in the `config/queue.yml`. If no configuration at all is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Everything is optional in the `config/queue.yml`. If no configuration is
```

provided, Solid Queue will run with one dispatcher and one worker with default
settings. Below are some of the configuration options you can set in `config/queue.yml`:

> | **Option**                           | **Description**                                                                                     | **Default Value**                             |

Reviewer 2: This table feels very useful (to anye developer trying to implement Solid Queue). On the other hand, if any of these values change in the future, it'll become outdated. But I think we should keep it, as it's useful.

Author: Ok, we can keep an eye on it to see how often these get updated and then change course if need be - but I agree that I think its useful to have here.

### Queue Order

As per the configuration options in the [Configuration section](#configuration),
the `queues` configuration option will list the queues that workers will pick
jobs from. In a list of queues, the order matters. Workers will pick jobs from
the first queue in the list - once there are no more jobs in the first queue,
only then will it move onto the second, and so on.

```yaml
# config/queue.yml
production:
  workers:
    - queues:[active_storage*, mailers]
      threads: 3
      polling_interval: 5
```

In the above example, workers will fetch jobs from queues starting with "active_storage", like  the `active_storage_analyse` queue and `active_storage_transform` queue. Only when no jobs remain in the `active_storage`-prefixed queues will workers move on to the `mailers` queue.

> NOTE: The wildcard `*` (at the end of "production") is only allowed on its own or at the end of a queue name to match all queues with the same prefix. You can't specify queue names such as `*_some_queue`.

Reviewer 2: I don't see a `*` at the end of "production". Does this refer to the one at the end of "active_storage*"?

Author: oops i updated the example a few hours and missed updating this NOTE, thanks for catching it!

Author: ✅

WARNING: Using wildcard queue names (e.g., `queues: active_storage*`) can slow down polling performance due to the need for a `DISTINCT` query to identify all matching queues, which can be slow on large tables. For better performance, it’s best to specify exact queue names instead of using wildcards.

> Active Job supports positive integer priorities when enqueuing jobs. You can read more about the [Priority section](#priority). This setup is helpful when you have jobs with different levels of importance or urgency in the same queue. Within a single queue, jobs are picked based on their priority (with lower values being higher priority). However, when you have multiple queues, the order of the queues themselves takes priority.

Reviewer 2: Trying to it make it less wordy (as this whole section is information dense). But feel free to ignore. 

```suggestion
Active Job supports positive integer priorities when enqueuing jobs (see [Priority section](#priority)). Within a single queue, jobs are picked based on their priority (with lower integers being higher priority). However, when you have multiple queues, the order of the queues themselves takes priority.
```

Author: I like this, thanks!

For example, if you have two queues, `production` and `background`, jobs in the `production` queue will always be processed first, even if some jobs in the `background` queue have a higher priority.

WARNING: You should avoid using the `priority` option if you're relying on the
order of the queues list. If both the order of the queues and the priority
option are used, the queue order will take precedence, and the priority option

> will only apply within each queue.

Reviewer 2: This is already explained above, with an example. This can be removed I think? Feels repetitive.

Author: ✅

```ruby
class ApplicationMailer < ActionMailer::Base
  ActionMailer::MailDeliveryJob.rescue_from(Exception) do |exception|
    Rails.error.report(exception)
    raise exception
  end
end
```

### Transactional Integrity on Jobs

By default, Solid Queue uses a separate database from your main application. This avoids issues with transactional integrity, which ensures that jobs are only enqueued if the transaction commits.

However, if you use Solid Queue in the same database as your app, you can enable transactional integrity with Active Job’s `enqueue_after_transaction_commit` option which can be enabled for individual jobs or all jobs through `ApplicationJob`:

```ruby
class ApplicationJob < ActiveJob::Base
  self.enqueue_after_transaction_commit = true
end
```

You can also configure Solid Queue to use the same database as your app while avoiding transactional integrity issues by setting up a separate database connection for Solid Queue jobs.Read more about [Transactional Integrity in the Solid Queue documentation](https://github.com/rails/solid_queue?tab=readme-ov-file#jobs-and-transactional-integrity)

> ### Recurring Tasks

Reviewer 2: All of these subsections starting at line 281, I have the urge to cut down to one paragraph or one sentence even or remove entirely. (They are all well written! nothing to do with that and making them to the README and linking to the README is a good approach!) But if I take on the perspective of a dev who came here to quickly learn what's relevant while they're implementing Solid Queue for the first time, I would want less words :) Though I don't know enough yet...to come with those shorter words (normally I'd want to spin up a sample project and implement it and all that). 

So, given the timeframe, we can leave it as is for now and revisit next year. It could be case of "I didn't have time to write a shorter letter, so I wrote a long one instead" :)

```

TIP: You can find the default generated schema for the `queue` database in
`db/queue_schema.rb`. They will contain tables like
`solid_queue_ready_executions`, `solid_queue_scheduled_executions`, and more.

Finally, to start the queue and start processing jobs you can run:

```bash
bin/jobs start
```

#### Production

Solid Queue is already configured for the production environment. If you open `config/environments/production.rb`, you will see the following:

```ruby
# config/environments/production.rb
# Replace the default in-process and non-durable queuing backend for Active Job.
config.active_job.queue_adapter = :solid_queue
config.solid_queue.connects_to = { database: { writing: :queue } }
```

Additionally, the database connection for the `queue` database is configured in `config/database.yml`:

```yaml
# config/database.yml
# Store production database in the storage/ directory, which by default
# is mounted as a persistent Docker volume in config/deploy.yml.
production:
  primary:
    <<: *default
    database: storage/production.sqlite3
  queue:
    <<: *default
    database: storage/production_queue.sqlite3
    migrations_paths: db/queue_migrate
```

### Configuration

> The configuration options for Solid Queue are defined  in `config/queue.yml`. Here is an example of the default configuration:

Reviewer 3: Little double space crept in there!

```suggestion
The configuration options for Solid Queue are defined in `config/queue.yml`. Here is an example of the default configuration:
```

NOTE: The wildcard `*` (like at the end of "active_storage") is only allowed on its own or at the end of a queue name to match all queues with the same prefix. You can't specify queue names such as `*_some_queue`.

WARNING: Using wildcard queue names (e.g., `queues: active_storage*`) can slow down polling performance due to the need for a `DISTINCT` query to identify all matching queues, which can be slow on large tables. For better performance, it’s best to specify exact queue names instead of using wildcards.

Active Job supports positive integer priorities when enqueuing jobs (see [Priority section](#priority)). Within a single queue, jobs are picked based on their priority (with lower integers being higher priority). However, when you have multiple queues, the order of the queues themselves takes priority.

For example, if you have two queues, `production` and `background`, jobs in the `production` queue will always be processed first, even if some jobs in the `background` queue have a higher priority.

> 

Reviewer 3: Extra blank line here

- **TERM, INT**: Starts graceful termination, sending a TERM signal and waiting up to `SolidQueue.shutdown_timeout`. If not finished, a QUIT signal forces processes to exit.
- **QUIT**: Forces immediate termination of processes.

If a worker is killed unexpectedly (e.g., with a `KILL` signal), in-flight jobs are marked as failed, and errors like `SolidQueue::Processes::ProcessExitError` or `SolidQueue::Processes::ProcessPrunedError` are raised. Heartbeat settings help manage and detect expired processes. Read more about [Threads, Processes and Signals in the Solid Queue documentation](https://github.com/rails/solid_queue?tab=readme-ov-file#threads-processes-and-signals).

### Errors When Enqueuing

Solid Queue raises a `SolidQueue::Job::EnqueueError` when Active Record errors occur during job enqueuing. This is different from the `ActiveJob::EnqueueError` raised by Active Job, which handles the error and makes `perform_later` return false. This makes error handling trickier for jobs enqueued by Rails or third-party gems like `Turbo::Streams::BroadcastJob`.

> For recurring tasks, any errors encountered while enqueuing are logged, but they won’t bubble up. Read more about [Errors When Enqueuing in the Solid Queue documentation](https://github.com/rails/solid_queue?tab=readme-ov-file#errors-when-enqueuing).

Reviewer 3: OPTIONAL: should we make 'bubble up' a bit easier to understand?

```suggestion
For recurring tasks, any errors encountered while enqueuing are logged, but they won’t be raised. Read more about [Errors When Enqueuing in the Solid Queue documentation](https://github.com/rails/solid_queue?tab=readme-ov-file#errors-when-enqueuing).
```

```ruby
class MyJob < ApplicationJob
  limits_concurrency to: 2, key: ->(contact) { contact.account }, duration: 5.minutes

  def perform(contact)
    # perform job logic
  end
end
```

In this example, only two `MyJob` instances for the same account will run concurrently. After that, other jobs will be blocked until one completes.

The `group` parameter can be used to control concurrency across different job types. For instance, two different job classes that use the same group will have their concurrency limited together:

```ruby
class Box::MovePostingsByContactToDesignatedBoxJob < ApplicationJob
  limits_concurrency key: ->(contact) { contact }, duration: 15.minutes, group: "ContactActions"
end

class Bundle::RebundlePostingsJob < ApplicationJob
  limits_concurrency key: ->(bundle) { bundle.contact }, duration: 15.minutes, group: "ContactActions"
end
```

This ensures that only one job for a given contact can run at a time, regardless of the job class.

Read more about [Concurrency Controls in the Solid Queue documentation](https://github.com/rails/solid_queue?tab=readme-ov-file#concurrency-controls).

### Error Reporting on Jobs

> If your error tracking service doesn’t automatically report job errors, you can manually hook into Active Job to report exceptions. For example, you can add a `rescue_from` block in `ApplicationJob`:

Reviewer 3: OPTIONAL: in the error guide we tried to keep the terms the same throughout so as to limit confusion. So, errors rather than exceptions (or even just 'them' in this case):

```suggestion
If your error tracking service doesn’t automatically report job errors, you can manually hook into Active Job to report them. For example, you can add a `rescue_from` block in `ApplicationJob`:
```

```ruby
class ApplicationJob < ActiveJob::Base

>   rescue_from(Exception) do |exception|

Reviewer 3: And maybe also here in the variable names, where you can? See what you think.

Author: In the [API docs ](https://apidock.com/rails/ActiveSupport/Rescuable/ClassMethods/rescue_from), they use the term exception and usually, more commonly you'd rescue an exception rather than an error. 

For now, I'm going to keep it as an exception ,especially since it's not a blocker but I'll give it some more thought and also if anyone has strong opinions let me know.

    Rails.error.report(exception)
    raise exception
  end
end
```

If you use ActionMailer, you’ll need to handle errors for `MailDeliveryJob` separately:

```ruby
class ApplicationMailer < ActionMailer::Base

>   ActionMailer::MailDeliveryJob.rescue_from(Exception) do |exception|

Reviewer 3: ... and also here, if you go with the strategy to use 'error' rather than 'exception'.

    Rails.error.report(exception)
    raise exception
  end
end
```

### Transactional Integrity on Jobs

By default, Solid Queue uses a separate database from your main application. This avoids issues with transactional integrity, which ensures that jobs are only enqueued if the transaction commits.

However, if you use Solid Queue in the same database as your app, you can enable transactional integrity with Active Job’s `enqueue_after_transaction_commit` option which can be enabled for individual jobs or all jobs through `ApplicationJob`:

```ruby
class ApplicationJob < ActiveJob::Base
  self.enqueue_after_transaction_commit = true
end
```

> You can also configure Solid Queue to use the same database as your app while avoiding transactional integrity issues by setting up a separate database connection for Solid Queue jobs.Read more about [Transactional Integrity in the Solid Queue documentation](https://github.com/rails/solid_queue?tab=readme-ov-file#jobs-and-transactional-integrity)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can also configure Solid Queue to use the same database as your app while avoiding transactional integrity issues by setting up a separate database connection for Solid Queue jobs. Read more about [Transactional Integrity in the Solid Queue documentation](https://github.com/rails/solid_queue?tab=readme-ov-file#jobs-and-transactional-integrity)
```

You can enqueue multiple jobs at once using [`perform_all_later`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveJob.html#method-c-perform_all_later). For more details see [Bulk Enqueuing](#bulk-enqueuing).

Default Adapter: Solid Queue
------------------------------

Solid Queue, which is enabled by default from Rails version 8.0 and onward is a
database-backed queuing system for Active Job, allowing you to queue large
amounts of data without requiring additional dependencies such as Redis.

> Besides regular job enqueuing and processing, Solid Queue supports delayed jobs, concurrency controls, numeric priorities per job, priorities by queue order and more.

Reviewer: Nitpick:
```suggestion
Besides regular job enqueuing and processing, Solid Queue supports delayed jobs, concurrency controls, numeric priorities per job, priorities by queue order, and more.
```

### Set Up

#### Production

Solid Queue is already configured for the production environment. If you open `config/environments/production.rb`, you will see the following:

```ruby
# config/environments/production.rb
# Replace the default in-process and non-durable queuing backend for Active Job.
config.active_job.queue_adapter = :solid_queue
config.solid_queue.connects_to = { database: { writing: :queue } }
```

which sets the `:solid_queue` adapter as the default for Active Job in the production environment, and connects to the `queue` database for writing.

Additionally, the database connection for the `queue` database is configured in `config/database.yml`:

```yaml
# config/database.yml
# Store production database in the storage/ directory, which by default
# is mounted as a persistent Docker volume in config/deploy.yml.
production:
  primary:
    <<: *default
    database: storage/production.sqlite3
  queue:
    <<: *default
    database: storage/production_queue.sqlite3
    migrations_paths: db/queue_migrate
```

NOTE: The key `queue` from the database configuration needs to match the key used in the configuration for `config.solid_queue.connects_to`.

> #### Development

Reviewer: I think most developers would first set up Solid Queue in development, before going to production.
Maybe describe development before production?

Author: Makes sense! I'll swap them around!

outstanding jobs are lost with the default async backend. This can be fine for
smaller apps or non-critical jobs in development.

However, if you want to use Solid Queue instead, you
can configure it in the same way as in the production environment:

```ruby
# config/environments/development.rb
config.active_job.queue_adapter = :solid_queue
config.solid_queue.connects_to = { database: { writing: :queue } }
```

with the corresponding database configuration:

```yaml
# config/database.yml
development
  primary:
    <<: *default
    database: storage/development.sqlite3
  queue:
    <<: *default
    database: storage/development_queue.sqlite3
    migrations_paths: db/queue_migrate
```

Thereafter, you can run the migrations for the `queue` database to ensure all the tables in queue database are created:

```bash
$ bin/rails db:migrate:queue
```

TIP: You can find the default generated schema for the `queue` database in
`db/queue_schema.rb`. They will contain tables like
`solid_queue_ready_executions`, `solid_queue_scheduled_executions`, and more.

To start the queue and start processing jobs you can run:

```bash
bin/jobs start
```

### Configuration

> The configuration options for Solid Queue are defined `config/queue.yml`. Here is an example of the default configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration options for Solid Queue are defined  in `config/queue.yml`. Here is an example of the default configuration:
```

```yaml
default: &default
  dispatchers:
    - polling_interval: 1
      batch_size: 500
  workers:
    - queues: "*"
      threads: 3
      processes: <%= ENV.fetch("JOB_CONCURRENCY", 1) %>
      polling_interval: 0.1
```

In order to understand the configuration options for Solid Queue, you must understand the different types of roles:

- **Workers**: They pick up jobs that are ready to run. These jobs are taken from the `solid_queue_ready_executions` table.

> - **Dispatchers**: They select jobs scheduled to run for the future. When it's time for these jobs to run, dispatchers move them from the `solid_queue_scheduled_executions` table to the `solid_queue_ready_executions` table so workers can pick them up. They also manage concurrency-related maintenance.

Reviewer: Nitpick, but maybe use the same ordering as in the `queue.yml`?
```suggestion
- **Dispatchers**: They select jobs scheduled to run for the future. When it's time for these jobs to run, dispatchers move them from the `solid_queue_scheduled_executions` table to the `solid_queue_ready_executions` table so workers can pick them up. They also manage concurrency-related maintenance.
- **Workers**: They pick up jobs that are ready to run. These jobs are taken from the `solid_queue_ready_executions` table.
```

- **Scheduler**: This takes care of recurring tasks, adding jobs to the queue when they're due.

> - **Supervisor**: It oversees the whole system, managing workers and dispatchers. It starts and stops them as needed, monitors their health, and ensures everything runs smoothly.

Reviewer: As these aren't mentioned in the default `queue.yml` they seem out-of-scope. Maybe it's best to leave them out?

Author: Resolving this as there was a conversation later on to keep them in.

| **shutdown_timeout**                   | Time the supervisor waits before forcing termination of processes after sending TERM signal. | 5 seconds                                                          |
| **silence_polling**                    | Whether to silence Active Record logs when polling for jobs.                                 | true                                                               |
| **supervisor_pidfile**                 | Path to the PID file created by the supervisor.                                              | nil                                                                |
| **preserve_finished_jobs**             | Whether to keep finished jobs in the database.                                               | true                                                               |
| **clear_finished_jobs_after**          | Period to keep finished jobs around if `preserve_finished_jobs` is true.                     | 1 day                                                              |

> | **default_concurrency_control_period** | Default duration for concurrency control in jobs.                                            | 3 minutes                                                          |

Reviewer: I think this might be a bit too detailed, and difficult to keep in-sync with Solid Queue.

You can read more about the [additional configuration options in the Solid Queue documentation](https://github.com/rails/solid_queue?tab=readme-ov-file#other-configuration-settings).

### Queue Order

As per the configuration options in the [Configuration section](#configuration),
the `queues` configuration option will list the queues that workers will pick
jobs from. In a list of queues, the order matters. Workers will pick jobs from
the first queue in the list - once there are no more jobs in the first queue,
only then will it move onto the second, and so on.

```yaml
# config/queue.yml
production:
  workers:

>     - queues:[production*, background]

Reviewer: `production` might be a less common name for a queue? Maybe use the wildcard for `active_storage_transform`, `active_storage_analyse`? And instead of `background`, maybe something like `mailers` or [`incineration`](https://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/configuring.html#config-action-mailbox-queues-incineration)?
```suggestion
    - queues:[active_storage*, mailers]
```

Author: Sounds good, will make this change and update the description below too.

      threads: 3
      polling_interval: 5
```

> In the above example, will fetch jobs from queues starting with "production", then "background" when no `production*` jobs remain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example, workers will fetch jobs from queues starting with "production", then "background" when no `production*` jobs remain.
```

order of the queues list. If both the order of the queues and the priority
option are used, the queue order will take precedence, and the priority option
will only apply within each queue.

### Threads, Processes, and Signals

In Solid Queue, parallelism is achieved through threads (configurable via the [`threads` parameter](#configuration)), processes (via the [`processes` parameter](#configuration)), or horizontal scaling. The supervisor manages processes and responds to the following signals:

- **TERM, INT**: Starts graceful termination, sending a TERM signal and waiting up to `SolidQueue.shutdown_timeout`. If not finished, a QUIT signal forces processes to exit.
- **QUIT**: Forces immediate termination of processes.

If a worker is killed unexpectedly (e.g., with a `KILL` signal), in-flight jobs are marked as failed, and errors like `SolidQueue::Processes::ProcessExitError` or `SolidQueue::Processes::ProcessPrunedError` are raised. Heartbeat settings help manage and detect expired processes. Read more about [Threads, Processes and Signals in the Solid Queue documentation](https://github.com/rails/solid_queue?tab=readme-ov-file#threads-processes-and-signals).

> ### Lifecycle Hooks

Reviewer: Is this section is maybe too detailed for this guide and can it possibly be removed?

> Solid Queue provides lifecycle hooks that let you run code at specific points in the supervisor’s and worker’s lifecycles. The two supervisor lifecycle hooks are:

Reviewer: Ok, the supervisor is mentioned here, so maybe we should keep it at line 231?

Author: I think so, I think it's also just useful to have information about all the roles in one place so that readers cab get a holistic view of how it all fits together.

- `start`: Runs after the supervisor boots but before it forks workers and dispatchers.
- `stop`: Runs after receiving a shutdown signal (`TERM`, `INT`, or `QUIT`) but before graceful or immediate shutdown begins.

Similarly, there are worker lifecycle hooks:

- `worker_start`: Runs after a worker boots but before it starts polling.
- `worker_stop`: Runs after receiving a shutdown signal but before the worker shuts down.

You can use methods like `SolidQueue.on_start` and `SolidQueue.on_worker_start` to hook into these lifecycle points. For example:

```ruby
SolidQueue.on_start { start_metrics_server }

> SolidQueue.on_stop { stop_metrics_server }

Reviewer: It seems, anytime we call methods on SolidQueue directly it doesn't belong in this guide?
These APIs can change and are a burden to keep in-sync.

Author: That's a good rule of thumb, I'll do that thanks!

```ruby
class MyJob < ApplicationJob
  limits_concurrency to: 2, key: ->(contact) { contact.account }, duration: 5.minutes

  def perform(contact)
    # perform job logic
  end
end
```

In this example, only two `MyJob` instances for the same account will run concurrently. After that, other jobs will be blocked until one completes.

The `group` parameter can be used to control concurrency across different job types. For instance, two different job classes that use the same group will have their concurrency limited together:

```ruby
class Box::MovePostingsByContactToDesignatedBoxJob < ApplicationJob
  limits_concurrency key: ->(contact) { contact }, duration: 15.minutes, group: "ContactActions"
end

class Bundle::RebundlePostingsJob < ApplicationJob
  limits_concurrency key: ->(bundle) { bundle.contact }, duration: 15.minutes, group: "ContactActions"
end
```

This ensures that only one job for a given contact can run at a time, regardless of the job class.

Read more about [Concurrency Controls in the Solid Queue documentation](https://github.com/rails/solid_queue?tab=readme-ov-file#concurrency-controls).

### Failed Jobs and Retries

> Solid Queue doesn’t provide automatic retries; it relies on Active Job for that. Failed jobs will be stored in the `solid_queue_failed_executions` table. You can inspect and retry them manually, for example:

Reviewer: In the context of an "Active Jobs" guide, mentioning that Active Job handles the retries seems a bit redundant, and only mkaes things more confusing.
```suggestion
Failed jobs will be stored in the `solid_queue_failed_executions` table. You can inspect and retry them manually, for example:
```

```ruby
failed_execution = SolidQueue::FailedExecution.find(1)
failed_execution.error # inspect the error

failed_execution.retry  # Re-enqueues the job

> failed_execution.discard  # Deletes the failed job

Reviewer: This seems to specific to Solid Queue.

Author: Will remove!

```

> For better tracking, you can use a tool like [`mission_control-jobs`](https://github.com/rails/mission_control-jobs) to manage failed jobs. Read more about [Failed Jobs and Retries in the Solid Queue Documentation](https://github.com/rails/solid_queue?tab=readme-ov-file#failed-jobs-and-retries).

Reviewer: "Mission Control Jobs" seems like a tool that could use its own section.

### Error Reporting on Jobs

If your error tracking service doesn’t automatically report job errors, you can manually hook into Active Job to report exceptions. For example, you can add a `rescue_from` block in `ApplicationJob`:

```ruby
class ApplicationJob < ActiveJob::Base
  rescue_from(Exception) do |exception|
    Rails.error.report(exception)
    raise exception
  end
end
```

If you use ActionMailer, you’ll need to handle errors for `MailDeliveryJob` separately:

```ruby
class ApplicationMailer < ActionMailer::Base
  ActionMailer::MailDeliveryJob.rescue_from(Exception) do |exception|
    Rails.error.report(exception)
    raise exception
  end
end
```

> Read more [Error Reporting on Jobs in the Solid Queue Documentation](https://github.com/rails/solid_queue?tab=readme-ov-file#error-reporting-on-jobs).
> 

Reviewer: This section already describes how Active Job can be used to handle errors. No need to link to Solid Queue, I think.
```suggestion
```

MyJob.set(queue: :another_queue).perform_later(record)
```

> NOTE:If you choose to use an [alternate queueing adapter](#alternate-queuing-adapters) you may need to specify the queues to listen to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: If you choose to use an [alternate queueing adapter](#alternate-queuing-adapters) you may need to specify the queues to listen to.
```

### Queue Backend Support

For `perform_all_later`, bulk enqueuing needs to be backed by the queue backend.
Solid Queue, the default queue backend, supports bulk enqueuing using
`enqueue_all`.

> [Other backends](#alternate-queuing-backends) like Sidekiq have a `push_bulk`

Reviewer 3: Question for consideration/discussion - or maybe one that needs more thought and to be dealt with at a later date.

Does it dilute the guide too much to start going down the path of alternate backends? I considered this question a few times when working on Testing. It's a guide that's really about minitest, so I landed on taking out the few RSpec mentions, with the view to perhaps offering an alternate guide sometime in the future. Your call - but just thought it might be an interesting one to consider.

Author: This is a good point @OughtPuts  and one that we can continue to discuss.

My opinion on this is that it’s fine to mention them where relevant, especially since not everyone may be using the default backend yet given how new it is. Over time, we can gradually phase out other references and consolidate everything into one place if necessary.

---------

If you need help figuring out where jobs are coming from, you can enable [verbose logging](debugging_rails_applications.html#verbose-enqueue-logs).

> Alternate Queuing Adapters

Author: Moved this section to the bottom as we have a preferred default now.

--------------------------

> Active Job have other built-in adapters for multiple queuing backends (Sidekiq,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Active Job has other built-in adapters for multiple queuing backends (Sidekiq,
```

```ruby
class GuestsCleanupJob < ApplicationJob
  self.queue_adapter = :resque
  # ...
end

# Now your job will use `resque` as its backend queue adapter, overriding the default Solid Queue adapter.
```

[`config.active_job.queue_adapter`]: configuring.html#config-active-job-queue-adapter

### Starting the Backend

Since jobs run in parallel to your Rails application, most queuing libraries
require that you start a library-specific queuing service (in addition to
starting your Rails app) for the job processing to work. Refer to library
documentation for instructions on starting your queue backend.

Here is a noncomprehensive list of documentation:

- [Sidekiq](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/wiki/Active-Job)
- [Resque](https://github.com/resque/resque/wiki/ActiveJob)
- [Sneakers](https://github.com/jondot/sneakers/wiki/How-To:-Rails-Background-Jobs-with-ActiveJob)
- [Queue Classic](https://github.com/QueueClassic/queue_classic#active-job)
- [Delayed Job](https://github.com/collectiveidea/delayed_job#active-job)
- [Que](https://github.com/que-rb/que#additional-rails-specific-setup)
- [Good Job](https://github.com/bensheldon/good_job#readme)

> - [Solid Queue](https://github.com/rails/solid_queue?tab=readme-ov-file#solid-queue)

Reviewer: We probably already have a lot of links to the Solid Queue docs.
So, should we remove this one? 
```suggestion
```
